F.C. Manager v1.0 Aplha #3
==========================

(I hope to replace this with a proper Windows HelpFile in the future)

1. Introduction.

This is a tool I have written to help me look after the affairs of the Sunday
league football club that I am secretary and treasurer for. I have used both
Access and Excel in the past to do the job but wanted to write a more specific
tool which anyone could use and which did not rely on those technologies, so
here it is.

The tool allows you to keep track of players, fixtures and monetary matters.
You can also hold the details of opponents and referees to aid with the entering
of fixtures and to allow one copy of these deatils to be shared among many
clubs.


2. Basic concepts.

The tool is presented in a similar fashion to Outlook; the left hand sidebar
hosts icons to access the main views - Members, Fixtures, Balance Sheet,
Accounts, Team Sheets, Opponents and Referees. Each of these views shows a
list of the items in it, presented in a table. You can also select a view
using the View menu.

When selecting a view the 4th dropdown menu changes its name to that of the
view selected and provides access to the options available for it. They are
nearly all the same, add, edit, delete, delete all, print, import and
export.

Each view is basically a list of items of that type, and displays a number
of properties associated with it, e.g. for Members, the view lists all
members sorted by name and alongside details such as their phone number,
availablility and senior status.


3. The views.

Each view generally has a similar set of actions associated with it, they should
be pretty self-explanatory:-

Add        - Adds a new item of that type.
Edit       - Allows editing of the properties for the item.
Delete     - Deletes an item any associated information related to it.
Delete All - Deletes all items of the given type and associated information.
Print      - Prints the list of items.
Import     - Allows importing of the items from another file format.
Export     - Allows exportng of the items to another file format.

When adding or entering an item the fields are nearly always displayed in a
tabbed dialog. Each page provides access to the items properties or in some
cases provides addtional information derived from elsewhere. Many pages are
used in more than one place because similar functionality is provided, these
pages are:-

Name & Address:
	On this page you can provide a persons name (either full or partially by
just filling in the first name field), Address, 2 phone numbers (e.g. home,
work, mobile) and an email address.

Notes:
	A single field where you can enter up to 512 characters of additional
information.

Statistics:
	This page can be used to associate arbitrary stats with an item, e.g. for
a member you can track the number of games played, goals scored, bookings etc;
for an opponent or referee you might want to record the marks you awarded them
after a game.


3.1 Members.

This is the list of all members (both players and others) who are associated
with the club. Each member has a number of basic properties such as name,
address, statistics and notes. Additionally you can also set the following:-

Registered With F.A. - Helps you separate players from other members.
Senior Player        - Helps you highlight experienced players.
Available            - Highlights players which are unavailable to play, e.g.
                       because they are injured or been transfered, one of
                       the predefined reasons can be selected.
Usual Team           - Allows you to associate the player with a specific team.
Usual Position       - Allows you to assign the player to a specific position.
                       These last two are used by the filters when creating a
                       team sheet for a game.

There is also a Payments page which gives a summary of all the fees/payments a
member has made.


3.2 Fixtures.

This is the list of all fixtures that the club is involved in. You can record
the date, type (friendly, league, cup, etc), teams, referee and result. The
team and referee drop lists are populated from the names stored in the opponents
and referees views, they also allow editing in case you need to append suffixes
such as "Reserves" or in case you need to enter a non-standard team such as in
cup games or friendlies where you play teams outside the league.
You also have the standard stats and notes properties.


3.3 Balance Sheet.


3.4 Accounts.


3.5 Team Sheets.


3.6 Opponents.


3.7 Referees.


4.0 Club Menu.

Currently there is only a single option which allows you to enter the basic
club details such as its name, the current deason and which league it is
playing in.


5.0 Reports Menu.

From here you can run a number of reports which summarises the information
contained in various views, such as the statistics and income/expenditure.
The reports can be viewed on screen and printed.


6.0 Debug Menu.

Ignore this, it is used by me to diagnose problems during development.


7.0 Help Menu.

This gives access to the about box which shows the version number and copyright
information.
